All About Wales by Ruth Ellen copyright Burlington Books 2017
All rights reserved
chapter 1 history one day I was sitting in a
cafe in Amsterdam drinking coffee and checking
my map a young man was sitting at a table
near me I noticed he had an unusual and interesting
tattoo on his left arm it was a beautiful big
red dragon the man saw me looking at his arm
and smiled a gahi aun he said I'm sorry I
don't speak Dutch I said to him I'm a Canadian
student
and I'm only here for a month the man laughed
and said I was speaking Welsh not Dutch I just
asked
you if you are okay I saw you looking at
my tattoo of the Welsh dragon so I thought you
were a
Welsh tourist like me you were speaking Welsh I exclaimed
do people really speak Welsh today
of course they speak it all over Wales be laughed
don't you know anything about Wales
are rugby are castles Welsh music Welsh love spoons what
are love spoons I thought perhaps I
just didn't understand his accent is Wales an independent country
from England I asked there's
no physical border or anything between them is there the
man laughed of course not he said look I'm
Owen and I'm also a student let's get another coffee
and if you're interested I'll tell you a
little about Wales what's your name I'm Ben I replied
feeling very ignorant and yes I'd really
like to know more about Wales he ordered us both
two more coffees and began his explanation
early history well Ben the history of Wales is a
history of battles against all kinds of invaders
in fact Wales has got more castles than any other
country in Europe that's because each new
invader built a castle to control the local population and
prevent another invasion the first
settlers came to Wales from other parts of Britain and
Europe with the Celtic invasions
about 700 BC then the Romans invaded Wales but they
mainly used it for military purposes
like forts camps and military roads when William the conqueror
invaded England in 1066 he didn't intend
into Wales to take control there by 1094 Williams elder
son controlled most of Wales
however the Welsh didn't welcome the Normans and the fighting
continued for many years
the situation got really bad for Wales in 1272 when
King Henry III of England died
and his son Edward I became the new king of
England he didn't like the Welsh much
and he was a strong military leader although Edward I
found resistance from some great
Welsh leaders he conquered Wales very easily he led three
major campaigns against the Welsh
and after each victory he built stone castles to defend
his territories
like Conway castle and Canarvon castle do these castles still
exist today I asked
oh yes said Owen they're very popular tourist sites some
couples have their weddings inside
Canarvon castle because it's a very romantic place English colonization
and Welsh rebellions
anyway from 1277 to 1283 Edward I began an English
colonization in Wales and created
many new towns Welsh peasants were forced to leave their
homes and land and English peasants
moved there instead however the Welsh rebellions didn't stop one
of the great Welsh heroes was
Owen Glindour the last native Welshmen to have the title
Prince of Wales he fought fiercely and
bravely for Welsh independence against English oppression but the English
forces were stronger
than his Welsh discontent continue throughout the centuries and the
last major Welsh rebellions
for independence occurred from 1400 to 1415 finally during the
reign of Henry VIII of England
the laws of Wales acts were passed in 1535 and
1542 these acts finally made Wales an equal part
of England with the same legal rights the idea was
to create one single state and to put an end
to the terrible battles and bloodshed between the English and
the Welsh
Welsh independence so do Welsh people today see themselves as
English or Welsh I asked
that's a good question and difficult to answer smiled Owen
there are no more battles between
the English and the Welsh but the desire for independence
is still an important issue for
many Welsh people in the 19th and 20th centuries the
movement for home rule appeared and in 1925
plied company the Welsh nationalist party was established now Wales
has got a national assembly
which decides on issues concerning Wales and the Welsh language
is still widely spoken
in most parts of the country how do you remember
all these facts and figures Owen I asked
you're like a walking encyclopedia my girlfriend says that too
laughed Owen I just remember historical
facts but I always forget birthdays and anniversaries so don't
get too impressed
chapter two geography Owen finished his coffee and looked at
his watch
I must go now Ben but we could meet later
for a drink say around seven yes that sounds great
I said see you later Owen after he left I
decided to google Wales and see how big it was
I looked at it on the map it seemed very
small to me I started to read about the geography
of the
country overview Wales has got England on its eastern side
and see on all the other sides
it's a small country but it's got a very diverse
and interesting landscape the Welsh coastline is
very long and includes many islands there are large populated
islands like Anglesey while
others are small and uninhabited the beaches are very beautiful
and some have got high cliffs
Wales is the only country in the world with a
continuous coastal path it's about 1400 kilometers
long and has got magnificent views that attract walkers and
cyclists from all over the world
Snowden Wales is a very mountainous country especially in the
north and central regions
with hundreds of natural lakes and waterfalls as well as
three large national parks
the Welsh valleys are very famous one of the most
beautiful natural sites in north Wales
is Snowden the highest mountain in Wales standing at 1
,085 meters
it's situated in Snowdonia National Park a very popular park
especially for mountain climbers
if you want to get to the top of Snowden
you can walk it there are six different walking routes
and they vary in difficulty some on the mountains are
very hard to climb
like crib goch which has vertical drops on both sides
if you don't want to walk to the top
you can take a ski lift or the Snowden mountain
railway and enjoy the views from the train windows
Snowden in Welsh is called a witherva which means tomb
or monument according to legend
as trophies he then made a cape out of them
to protect himself from the cold legend says that
when King Arthur climbed to the top of Snowden he
met Rita Gaur and killed him everybody loves
a good legend Cardiff Cardiff is the capital city of
Wales and the 10th largest city in the
United Kingdom with a current inner city population of around
358,400
a very popular tourist destination Cardiff is known as the
city of castles because it has got
five different castles Cardiff was always very important strategically because
of its location
at the center of three rivers the river Taff the
river Ili and the river Rimney
governors could control trade and movement over a large area
from Cardiff because of this
the Romans constructed a fort there over 2,000 years
ago and later the Normans built Cardiff
castle on this fort this magnificent castle was renovated many
times during its history
visitors to the castle can still see the remains of
the Roman fort as well as the secret tunnels
that provided air raid shelters during World War II the
writer Rold Dahl was born and lived in
Cardiff his home and school are popular tourist sites today
the tourists also love the port
which was renovated in the 1990s and renamed Cardiff Bay
this busy area is now full of shops
and restaurants as well as the Senev the National Assembly
of Wales and a spectacular entertainment
center the Wales Millennium Center climate the climate in Wales
like in the rest of the United
Kingdom can change very quickly it rains a lot especially
in the autumn and winter
in the winter season the sea storms and strong currents
cause many shipwrecks if you go diving
you might find an underwater treasure or the remains of
an old ship chapter three attractions
the key house the key house near Conway castle in
north Wales is the smallest house in Great Britain
the building is 1.8 meters wide 2.5 meters
deep and only 3.1 meters high thousands of tourists
come
here and try one by one to enter into the
two little rooms of this tiny house only four people
can be in the house at one time the upstairs
is so small that only a bed and a bedside
cupboard
can fit inside a lady dressed in traditional Welsh clothes
greets visitors and tells them
about the history of the house the house was built
in the 16th century and it was inhabited
until 1900 the last person who lived in the house
was a tall fisherman 1.91 meters he couldn't stand
up fully in the house in the end he had
to leave the house because it was declared unsuitable to
live in planvar put gringith gorgerig plantissiliogh plan drop will
go go go if you like the sound
of Welsh and its strange spelling you should visit this
village on the Isle of Anglesey
don't worry about saying its name it's called planvar pg
for short this long name gives the
location of the village it means st mary's church in
the hollow of the white hazel near a rapid
world pool and the church of st to stilio of
the red cave this incredible name was chosen
as the name of the village in the 19th century
to attract tourists today thousands of tourists take
pictures by the 4.6 meter wide sign on the
railway platform it's the longest name of a place in
europe and of course it appears in the Guinness world
of records can you imagine a small railway
ticket with a 58 letter destination printed on it port
marion port marion is an unusual and
picturesque tourist village in north Wales it was designed by
the architect saklaf williams
ellis and built between the years 1925 and 1975 this
is a very special place because it looks
like an Italian village but in Wales every building is
different in color and shape there
are lots of beautiful gardens and a path leading down
to the sea so klaf williams ellis was an
environmentalist his plan was to build a tourist village that
was an attractive place to live
the village itself is not large but the architectural designs
the arches and the piazza
make it look bigger not surprisingly port marion is extremely
popular with the tourists
animal attractions you can see dolphins porpoises and seals in
Wales in the spring and summer months
and if you're lucky you may even see a humpback
whale and of course there are sheep
in fact there are more sheep than people in Wales
they're a major part of the Welsh landscape
walking around the hills and mountains and they're not frightened
of cars so they often appear
in the middle of country roads birds there are many
interesting birds in Wales
and the most famous one is the red kite once
this bird of prey was in danger of extinction
but because of intense conservation efforts it has survived and
you can see it in many parts of
Wales in fact there are so many red kites that
it is often regarded as the unofficial national
bird of Wales the best place to see red kites
is midwales it's a truly wonderful sight
watching these elegant birds flying in the sky they've got
beautiful long wings and a long tail
they mainly eat small mammals like rabbits and mice but
they also enjoy feeding on a carcass
there are even special farms where tourists can watch them
feed the big pit national coal museum
during the 19th and 20th centuries coal and slate mining
were major industries in Wales
Cardiff was one of the largest coal exporting ports in
the world
both industries still exist today but on a much smaller
scale in the past the coal and slate
mines provided work for adults and for children some children
started to work in the mines when
they were only 60 years old like their parents they
worked long hours in dangerous uncomfortable
and badly ventilated conditions there were many accidents where miners
were killed or badly hurt
the big pit national coal museum in Blanavon south Wales
is one of the few remaining mines
where visitors can tour 90 meters below the ground and
learn about life in the mines
around 140 000 tourists visit it every year
chapter four traditional food and drink traditional Welsh food is
quite simple
and represents the lives of the working people since many
Welsh people lived in remote areas
they had to cook using ingredients that were available and
economical
vegetables came from the garden or local farms the fish
from the rivers lakes or the sea
and the meat usually came from the family pig although
lamb is a popular meat in Wales today
in the past it was only eaten on special days
or holidays historically there were no written
recipes recipes were passed down orally from generation to generation
call call is a traditional Welsh soup and is often
considered the national dish of Wales
it's a winter dish that originated in the 14th century
once it was made with bacon
or beef together with vegetables like carrots or potatoes today
call is often made with lamb
and leak lava bread lava bread is a traditional Welsh
dish made from lava an edible seaweed
found on the rocks along the coastline of Wales it's
extremely nutritious because it's
rich in minerals proteins and vitamins the lava is cooked
for hours and then made into a greenish
black puree or paste a traditional Welsh breakfast usually consists
of lava bread
bacon sausage eggs and cockles some people use lava as
sauce or make it into soup
during the 18th century lava was a basic and important
food for the miners
the miners wives collected it from the rocks on the
coast and either sold it in the market
or prepared lava bread with it a typical miner started
his day with lava bread as part of his
traditional Welsh breakfast although the production of lava has become
industrialized
the traditional methods of preparing it still remain in some
parts of Wales today
glamorgan sausage the glamorgan sausage is different from regular sausages
because it's
completely vegetarian it's traditionally made with a white Welsh cheese
called kafili leak
and breadcrumbs these sausages were particularly popular during world war
two
when it was hard to find meat to buy.
Barra brief
Barra means bread and brief means speckled. So barra brief literally means speckled bread.
It is a cake with dried fruit and spices.
Barra brief is served with butter at tea time.
In fact, in Argentina, there's a kind of barra brief called torta negra.
This comes from the Welsh settlers who brought their traditional dishes with them
when they arrived in Patagonia, and it still served today in Welsh tea houses in that area.
Drinks
Wales produces beer, whiskey and wine.
A popular new kind of gin called seaweed gin is made in Wales.
It's made with seaweed from the Welsh coast and is processed at a local distillery.
The colour and taste of the seaweed depends on the season,
and this influences the taste of the gin.
The seaweed makes the gin a bit salty, but it's got a very distinct and unique taste.
Chapter 5
Festivals and Traditions
St David's Day
The most famous national holiday in Wales is St David's Day.
On the 1st of March, there are lots of celebrations on this day.
Traditional songs are sung and traditional food is eaten.
Some children dress in the Welsh national costume and hold leeks and daffodils too.
St David is the patron saint of Wales.
He was born about 1500 years ago and he was educated at a monastery.
Later he became a monk.
According to legend, St David performed many miracles in his life.
People believe that he helped a blind man to see again and brought a child back to life
by wetting him with his tears.
However, according to legend, his most famous miracle was when he was giving a sermon to a
large number of people and many couldn't see or hear him.
Then a white dove landed on David's shoulder and the ground that David was standing on
rose up to a large hill.
Suddenly everybody could see and hear him.
A church was built on this hill with pictures and stained glass windows showing St David
with the white dove on his shoulder.
To this day, the white dove is the emblem of St David.
There are many churches and chapels in St David's name as well as a flag.
The name Davith is the Welsh name for David and many boys in Wales are called that.
St Dewin Wednesday.
On the 25th of January, the Welsh celebrate St Dewin Wednesday which is a romantic day
for lovers.
People exchange cards and they are celebrations all over Wales.
Dewin Wenn is the Welsh patron saint of lovers.
In the 5th century, there was a king called Brechann Brechanyog who had 24 daughters.
Dewin Wenn was the most beautiful.
She was in love with a man called Mylon but her father had a different man for her to marry.
Dewin Wenn was sad and asked God to help her forget Mylon.
That night, an angel visited Dewin Wenn in her sleep and gave her a sweet potion.
This helped her forget her feelings for Mylon and turned him into a block of ice.
God then gave Dewin Wenn three wishes.
Her first wish was for Mylon to be thawed.
Her second wish was for God to help all lovers and her final wish was that she would never marry.
God answered all three wishes.
In return, Dewin Wenn became a nun and dedicated her life to God.
She built the church of St. Dewin Wenn and founded a convent on the island
of Flangthwin near Anglesey.
The remains of the church and Dewin Wenn's well can be seen on the island.
The well is still a favorite place for young Welsh lovers even today.
I stethvoth meaning sitting together or gathering is a Welsh festival of music,
literature and performance.
The first I stethvoth took place in the 12th century.
Poets and musicians from all over Wales were invited to recite their poetry or play their music
and judges chose the best one.
An elegant high-backed chair with arms was awarded to the winner.
This was a prestigious prize because from the medieval period until the 1700s,
ordinary people sat on simple stools.
High-backed chairs were kept for royalty and people of high status only.
Today, the nationalized stethvoth of Wales takes place every August for eight days
and it's the largest festival of poetry and music in Europe.
The entire competition is held in Welsh.
Chapter 6. Language
I met Owen later that evening and we decided to tour together over the following days.
I know all about Wales now, I told him.
I spent an hour googling all sorts of interesting things about your country.
Next time I go to the UK, I'll include Wales in the trip.
Good idea, Ben, said Owen.
I'll show you lots of cool places, but I'm not speaking Welsh.
It's such a hard language.
You said a lot of people speak Welsh today, Owen.
But what do you usually speak at home, I asked?
Welsh or English?
Why speak Welsh most of the time, answered Owen?
I speak it at work with my friends and with my family.
Really, I said surprised.
Before I met you, I thought Welsh was a dead language, like Latin.
Absolutely not.
Most people can speak and write Welsh.
It's an obligatory subject in all schools until the age of 16.
Children learn it as either a first or second language.
In fact, quite a lot of children are taught all their subjects in Welsh.
When you come to Wales, you'll see and hear Welsh everywhere.
There are radio stations and a TV channel with all their programs in Welsh.
Also, there are Welsh newspapers and magazines,
and the road signs are in both languages.
Welsh is really Britain's oldest language.
The Romans were the first people to write in Welsh,
and there are elements of Latin in the language.
From the 7th century, the people of Wales were called Commeri,
which means Welsh, and Wales created its own laws in Welsh.
But the Welsh language has also had its battles.
In 1536, Henry VIII passed a law, which prohibited using Welsh in the legal system
and in administrative affairs.
Then in 1549, the English Parliament passed the Act of Uniformity,
which said all public prayer had to be in English.
Fortunately for us, in 1563, Queen Elizabeth I allowed the Bible and the prayer book
to be printed in Welsh, and this brought the language back again.
Welsh people went to church regularly,
so the translations helped the language survive.
Welsh literature, especially poetry, has helped to preserve the language and national identity.
In 1870, the English Act of Education
made English the official language of instruction at schools,
to put an end to the Welsh language.
Children who spoke Welsh were punished.
If a teacher heard a child speaking Welsh,
he would put a Welsh knot sign around the child's neck.
Even the names of towns were changed into English.
For example, Khairdiv became Cardiff.
So, how has the language survived until now, Owen?
I asked.
Well, a sense of national identity has led to the revival of the language.
Now there's Welsh language instruction in schools, education centres,
and on Welsh radio stations and TV channels.
Ben, have you heard of Patagonia?
That's in South America, isn't it?
I asked.
Yes, in Argentina, Owen answered.
In 1865, several Welsh people arrived in Patagonia and stayed there.
They wanted to keep their culture and language, so they spoke Welsh.
Then more Welsh people started to visit the region in the 60s,
and this revived the language.
Today they still speak Patagonia and Welsh there, a dialect of Welsh.
Welsh teachers are sent to Patagonia to instruct local teachers in the language.
Apparently speaking Welsh is a sign of prestige in Patagonia.
Can you understand Patagonian Welsh?
I asked.
Oh yes, said Owen.
It's not so different from our Welsh.
Owen lifted his cup of coffee, looked at me and said,
Comery ambeath.
I tried unsuccessfully to repeat that.
What does it mean, I asked?
Wales forever, smiled Owen, and drank some more coffee.
Chapter 7 Sport Rugby
Wales participates in many world sporting events,
like the Rugby World Cup and the FIFA World Cup.
Although the Welsh like playing football,
the sport that most people associate with Wales is rugby.
Rugby is considered the national sport and it's played and followed throughout Wales.
The Welsh Rugby Union, WRU, supervises the different rugby clubs,
the national team, the referees, players and trainers.
Rugby isn't just for men.
There's a WRU team for women too.
Both teams have got the same emblem.
The Prince of Wales is feathers and they both wear the same uniform,
red shirts, white shorts and red socks.
At every game, the enthusiastic fans sing Welsh rugby songs.
These are often folk songs or hymns.
In fact, some of these religious songs were sung in the late 19th century.
The oldest Welsh rugby song is Men of Harlech,
which is about Welsh resistance during the siege of Harlech Castle,
between 1461 and 1468.
The Millennium Stadium
The Millennium Stadium, recently renamed the Principality Stadium,
opened in June 1999 and it's the biggest arena in Wales.
It's got a retractable roof and it can seat 74,500 visitors.
At international rugby games, the Welsh fans stand in the stadium,
all loudly saying their national anthem,
Land of My Fathers, Hayne Vlada-Nadhi.
Besides the National Rugby Union team,
the stadium also hosts the Welsh national football team
and has had music concerts there,
including Madonna, U2 and Red Hot Chili Peppers.
Jousting
In medieval times, the most popular Welsh sport was Jousting.
Wales is a country of castles and Jousting was once the favourite
form of entertainment of kings, knights and noblemen.
Two knights fought on horseback and the objective was to break the lands
on his opponent's armour or shield and to make him fall from his horse.
It was a battle of speed and courage.
In medieval times, the winning jouster was given a prize
like a gold ring, a sword or an elaborate helmet,
but the loser often died.
Jousting was a dangerous sport.
Every year in June, Cardiff Castle has a medieval weekend,
with traditional jousting for the visitors.
Even today, they are riding schools that teach Jousting.
The sport requires control and physical strength
because the armour is made of steel, which makes it very heavy.
Jousters must train daily and must also be good at horse riding
and have good balance because they need to hold a long
land in one hand while riding.
That's not so easy at all.
Chapter 8
Famous figures
Owen Glendour
One of the greatest Welsh heroes was Owen Glendour.
He was the last native Welshman to have the title Prince of Wales.
Owen was a strong charismatic leader who united and led the Welsh
against the English in the 14th century.
Welshman from all social classes joined Owen in his revolt
and supported his desire for Welsh independence from England.
After years of fighting, the revolt ended and by 1410,
Owen was a wanted fugitive.
No one knows exactly when he died, but his memory remains strong throughout Wales
and many parks and streets have his name.
Dylan Thomas
Popular Welsh poet Dylan Thomas is probably one of the most important poets of the 20th century.
He was born in Swansea on the southern coast of Wales in 1914.
His father and English literature professor used to recite Shakespeare to Thomas,
inspiring a love of literature from an early age.
Much of his inspiration and ideas came from the Welsh countryside.
He is famous for his collected poems of Dylan Thomas.
Radio plays like Undermilkwood and a book Portrait of the Artist as a Young Dog.
Surprisingly, Dylan Thomas, the most famous Welsh poet, never wrote in Welsh.
Dylan Thomas died in the United States at 39 years of age
and there is a plaque to his memory in Poets Corner in Westminster Abbey, London.
Welsh celebrities name, birthplace, profession, achievements.
Gareth Bale
Cardiff
Top footballer, plays for Real Madrid and the Welsh national team.
Sir Anthony Hopkins, 1937
Port Talbot, actor
works in cinema, theatre and television.
One Oscar for Best Actor in the Silence of the Lambs, 1991 and Two Emmys,
knighted by Queen Elizabeth II in 1993, received a star on the Hollywood Walk of Fame.
Sir Tom Jones, 1940
Ponta Prive
Singer
Popular Singer has sold over 100 million records as 36 top 40 hits in the UK and 19 in the United
States.
Received a Grammy Award and two Brit Awards, knighted by Queen Elizabeth II for services to music.
Roll Dahl, 1916 to 1990
Cardiff
Writer, poet and screenwriter
His most famous works include Charlie and the Chocolate Factory, Matilda, The Witches,
Fantastic Mr. Fox and James and the Giant Peach, sold more than 250 million books worldwide
and received several awards for his contribution to literature.
Catherine Zeta-Jones, 1969
Swansea, Actress
Works in Theatre, Cinema and Television has won several awards including an Oscar for Chicago
and a CBE for her film and humanitarian works.
She appeared in Intorable Cruelty, The Terminal and The Legend of Zorro.
Chapter 9
Welsh Symbols
The Flag
The Welsh Flag has got two large horizontal stripes, one green and one white
and a large red dragon in the middle.
Green and white were the colors of the 15th century Tudor royal family who came from Wales.
They added the red dragon to the Tudor flag to emphasize their Welsh descent.
However, it was only in 1959 as the flag officially became the National Flag of Wales.
The red dragon supposedly comes from the time of King Arthur.
According to legend, the wizard Merlin had a vision of a red dragon,
the native Britons, fighting a white dragon, the Saxon invaders and the red dragon won the battle.
Today, the red dragon represents all things that are connected to Wales.
The Leek
It might surprise you to read that one of the national emblems of Wales is the Leek.
According to one legend, King Cadwalader ordered his soldiers to wear a Leek on their helmets
when they were fighting the Saxons in a Leek field.
The Leeks helped them identify themselves and gave them good camouflage from their enemy.
Another legend says that St David always ate Leeks even when he was fasting.
So they became his personal symbol.
Today, many Welsh people wear a Leek on St David's day to celebrate their victory against the Saxons.
The Daffodil
The Daffodil is another symbol of Wales, but that may be due to some language confusion.
A Leek in Welsh is Ken Hinnen,
and a Daffodil in Welsh is Ken Hinnen Peder, which means Peter's Leek.
Daffodils are spring flowers and since St David's day is on 1st of March, many people
wear a Daffodil on that day too. Traditional Welsh costume
Welsh women had a traditional costume, but it was mainly poorer rural women who wore it at the market.
There are many different variations of this costume,
but it generally consists of a striped under dress with a shawl and an apron.
And the most important part of the Welsh costume is the tall chimney hat.
The Welsh costume became a symbol of national identity,
and today women wear it on special occasions like St David's day or at Eistelvaz.
Love spoons
You can't visit a Welsh gift shop without seeing a variety of love spoons.
The Welsh love spoon is a very popular souvenir.
Made by hand from one piece of wood, it is carved with a special message or symbol,
for example, a heart for love, a horseshoe for luck, a cross for religion, and bells for marriage.
The tradition of carving and giving a love spoon to a girl originated in Wales
in the 17th century. The spoons were not actually used, they were displayed as ornaments on the wall.
Young men carved their love and intentions on a love spoon.
If a girl kept the love spoon, it was a sign that she was interested in him.
If she returned it, it was clear she didn't want the man.
The love spoon tradition disappeared in the 19th century, but over the last 40 years,
there's been a revival and people, especially tourists,
by hand-made love spoons for their loved ones on special occasions,
like anniversaries, births or graduations. It's certainly more original than a box of chocolates
or flowers. Chapter 10. Myths and Legends
It's not surprising that a country with so many castles has got lots of legends and ghost stories.
There are plenty of stories of haunted castles and buildings in Wales.
Strange things seem to happen in Cardiff Castle, particularly in its southwest corner.
Apparently, at 3.45 every morning, the heavy doors of the dining room open and closed by
themselves and the lights go on and off. Another scary story is the sudden appearance of the
second Marquis of Bute. He lived in Cardiff Castle in the 19th century.
According to some people, he sometimes appears in the library dressed in a long red coat
that's enough to terrify the tourists. Another castle with a reputation for ghosts is Castle
Koch, Red Castle, which is nine kilometers from Cardiff. It looks beautiful and romantic,
but it's got dark dungeons and corridors. In fact, on Halloween, there are special ghost tours there.
There's a legend about the Castle Koch ghost who continues to search for the treasure he hid
in the walls of the castle. Some people say they experience a strange feeling in the chapel,
as if someone is watching them. Some hear strange sounds in the Great Hall, and others
maintain that a spirit touched them. If you're a nervous person, it's probably best not to take
the Castle Koch night tour. Devil's Bridge, a village in West Wales.
Another popular tourist site is a village called Ponta Finnach, which means the bridge on the
Manach. This unusual bridge is actually not one bridge, but three bridges, one built on the other.
The first bridge was built of stone in the 11th century, the second in 1753,
and the third iron bridge in 1901. Visitors can walk down stone steps,
called Jacob's Ladder, from the third bridge to the first bridge to see a beautiful waterfall.
So how did this interesting feature get its name, Devil's Bridge?
According to legend, the bridge was built by the devil. Apparently, in the 11th century,
the devil visited Wales and met an old woman with her dog. The old woman was worried about her
cow, which was trapped on the other side of the river. The devil wanted the woman's soul,
so he agreed to build a bridge across the river in return for the soul of the first living thing
that crossed the bridge. But the old woman was clever. As soon as the devil finished building the
bridge, she threw some bread onto the bridge. Her dog ran after the bread and became the first
living thing to cross the bridge. The devil was so humiliated by this that he left Wales and never
returned again. King Arthur
There are many legends of King Arthur and Wales. Two lakes in Snowdonia,
Lake Lidor and Lake Ogwin, are both reputed to contain King Arthur's magical sword Excalibur.
There are also rocks that supposedly show the hoof prints of King Arthur's horse.
A stone on the banks of Lake Barfog has strange hoof prints,
supposedly from the time when King Arthur and his horse pulled a monster from the lake.
There are lots of fantasy tales and legends about the western coast of Wales.
These remote places inspire frightening thoughts and wild imagination, which make the best ghost
stories. Chapter 11 Arts Wales Land of Song
Wales is known as the Land of Song, and it has got many Welsh male choirs. These originated in the
19th century during the Industrial Revolution, and are an important part of Welsh culture and
identity. Today there are over 100 male choirs in Wales. The industrial workforce in Wales
came from the working class, and most of the workers were men. They worked long hours in the
ports, mines or railways, and they often organized themselves into a local choir within their workplace.
The choir was a way for them to relax after a hard day's work. It gave these hard working men
a sense of identity and pride, and a unique chance to see other places in Wales and England,
because choirs often competed against each other. The choirs sang mainly traditional Welsh songs
and hymns, but sometimes light opera or popular modern songs. The songs were often accompanied
by the triple harp, a harp with three rows of strings. This instrument was played so much in
Wales that it became known as the Welsh harp. Today it's considered the natural instrument of
Wales, and traditional Welsh folk music is often played on this harp.
My grandfather was in a choir, Owen told Ben. He told me that the first time he left his village
was when he was 23, when his choir sang in a competition in Cardiff. He used to tell me
stories of his life in the village. He said that when he was a boy, choirs were a natural part
of village life. I can still hear his voice saying, When I was a lad, you did what your father did.
You left school, got a job in the mines, and became a member of a choir. That's how it was in the
village. Wales in films and TV The Welsh countryside is a great location for films,
because it has an interesting and diverse landscape, beautiful long coasts, high mountains,
and magnificent cliffs. In Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows, there is a scene when Harry and
his friends hide in Dobby's Shell Cottage. This cottage was built especially for the film
on the sandy beach of Pembroksha, West Wales. Although the cottage isn't there anymore,
you can still walk along the beach and imagine you are walking with Harry, Hermione and Ron.
In 2010, this same location was chosen for the film Robin Hood. This time, it was used to present
a ferocious battle. Horsemen dressed in armour and with flags in their hands galloped along the
beach. The main actor, Russell Crow, liked the location so much that he camped on the sand for
several nights instead of flying back to his luxurious hotel in London.
American actress Kristin Stewart was also fascinated by the beautiful Pembroksha sands
when she played Snow White in the film Snow White and the Huntsman 2012. There is an exciting
scene in which Snow White rides with 80 men on horseback, and this was filmed along Marlowe's
sands in Pembroksha. Doctor Who? Doctor Who is a British science fiction television series
which began in 1963 and continued until 1989. It was later revived in 2005 due to popular demand.
The series is about a doctor who travels in time in his special time travel machine,
the TARDIS. The series is filmed in South Wales. For tourists who like sands fiction,
filming and technology, a visit to the Doctor Who experience in Cardiff Bay is a must. There,
they can learn about the filming of Doctor Who and see many of the different props like the TARDIS,
the monsters and the costumes that appear in the series. They can also discover how they
create the amazing special effects. It's a very interesting and popular attraction.
Chapter 12 Wales Today
Tourism In the past, coal and slate mining were the main industries in Wales.
But today, the main industry is tourism, with over 8 million visitors a year. Most of the
tourists come from other parts of the United Kingdom, especially England. Wales also attracts
tourists from the United States and Europe, particularly France and Germany. Visiting the
numerous castles and other historic sites is a popular activity for tourists, especially in the
summer, when you can watch representations of battles and jousting. Wales is a wonderful
country to visit if you like the outdoor life. The most popular tourist activities are climbing
in the mountains and other sports, such as canoeing and cycling. But if you like more of a challenge,
there's also hangliding or downhill mountain biking. There are over 1 million Americans of
Welsh descent, so many of them come to discover their origins and learn about their ancestors,
culture and traditions. Wales also has got some beautiful and unusual
glamping sites. Glamping means glamorous camping. Not everyone enjoys the normal camping
experience, sleeping bags, tents, fires or worrying about keeping their things dry when it rains.
When you go glamping, you can enjoy the positive experiences of being outdoors,
but with every comfort, like beds, bathrooms and heating. There are all kinds of Welsh
glamping sites, tree houses, cabins and tents. Some are more luxurious than others, but they're
all very comfortable. Fashion Wales has got many sheep, so it's not surprising that wool has played
an important part in Welsh industry throughout the years. In fact, spinning and weaving of wool
already existed in prehistoric times. The production of wooling whales was a very important
industry in the country until World War I. Today, there are only a few wool mills,
and these are usually operated by small families. They still produce traditional Welsh cloth
using old looms, protecting the environment. Like other countries,
Wales is looking for ways to protect the environment and reduce carbon dioxide emissions.
One solution is building a wind farm to produce electricity. Wind power doesn't consume fuel,
and it doesn't generate air pollution. Gwinter moor is an example of an offshore wind farm.
It's off the coast of North Wales, and it's the second largest offshore wind farm in the world.
It has 160 wind turbines that can produce enough energy for approximately 30% of homes in Wales.
Welsh independence
Some Welsh people prefer to maintain their national identity without leaving the United
Kingdom. But there are other Welsh people who want independence, and certainly more control
over decisions that affect their lives. There are political parties who want Welsh independence
from the United Kingdom. One of the main parties that promotes this ideology is the Welsh nationalist
party, Plaid Company. In the early 20th century, there was a fear among many Welsh people that
their language and culture would disappear as English became the official language.
As a result, Plaid Company was founded in 1925. One of its main objectives was to create a
bilingual society by reviving the Welsh language. It also wanted to promote Wales' contribution
in the global market, as well as to become a member of the United Nations.
The recent vote for Great Britain to exit from the European Union, Brexit, has raised the question
of Welsh independence. Most Welsh people voted to leave the European Union, and Plaid Company's
leader sees Brexit as an opportunity for Wales to become an independent country.
Many Welsh people may disagree about independence, but most of them want to promote Welsh identity
and language throughout Wales today. The Welsh are proud of their country,
their traditions, and their contribution to all areas of British life.
He lived with his master, William Thomas, in the coastal city of Swansea.
He became famous for saving people from the sea. When Swansea Jack heard a cry of help,
he dived into the cold water and pulled the person to a safe place. His first rescue was in June
1931, when he was only a year old. He jumped into the sea and saved a 12-year-old boy.
Nobody knew what he had done until a few weeks later when he rescued another swimmer.
This time, a crowd of people saw his actions, and his photograph appeared in the local newspaper.
Then, news of his first rescue became known. According to legend, he saved 27 people in his
lifetime. In fact, Swansea Jack saved so many people that he won the bravest dog of the year award,
a silver collar, a silver cup from the Lord Mayor of London, and two bronze medals.
Dog lovers enjoyed meeting Swansea Jack, and he often appeared at carnivals and shows with his
owner to help raise money for charity. Sadly, Swansea Jack died in 1937 after eating rat poison.
The people of Swansea were so proud of their dog that they built a special monument to him,
which visitors can see today near Swansea's rugby ground.
Page 60, Rollo
When people go to agricultural shows, they usually see sheep dogs hurting animals.
But for several years, the star of these shows in Wales and other places in the UK
was a woolly white sheep called Rollo. Welsh farmer Emlim Roberts became Rollo's owner in 2005.
He rescued her on a visit to friends when she was a tiny lamb in Canavan.
Everyone thought the lamb had died, he said, but then he saw she was still alive,
so he decided to take her home. The little lamb recovered and Emlim called her Rollo because her
favourite treat was a famous British chocolate sweet called Rollo. Rollo grew up with Emlim's
sheep dogs and it became obvious she thought she was also a dog because she started to behave
like them. She ate her meals with them and suttered Emlim's feet while he watched TV.
But Emlim was even more surprised when she started to copy the dogs and bring his ducks
together and into their pen for the night. In 2006, he started to take her to agricultural shows
and amazed the crowds with her talents. Besides herding ducks around a special course,
she jumped over fences and did other tricks too. Sadly, Rollo died in 2013,
but Emlim is now training Rollo's nephew, Horlix, to do tricks and dance.
Emlim hopes the people will love him the same way they loved Rollo.